README.md, before:

# Nexus GK MIDI Controller Firmware - Modular Refactoring

A modular refactoring of Cycfi Research's Nexus GK MIDI controller for MSP430G2553, enhanced with switch-to-CC mapping functionality.

## Attribution

Based on the original [Cycfi Research Nexus GK](https://www.cycfi.com/) codebase. Original source: [https://github.com/cycfi/nexus/tree/master/source/nexus_midi](https://github.com/cycfi/nexus/tree/master/source/nexus_midi)

## Overview

This refactoring transforms the original monolithic Nexus GK firmware into a modular architecture while adding switch-to-CC mapping capabilities. Built with PlatformIO for MSP430G2553 (16KB Flash, 512B RAM).

### Key Enhancement: Switch-to-CC Mapping
- One-hot encoding: only one CC number active per switch position
- Configurable CC range mapping
- Real-time CC transmission on switch changes

## Features

### Preserved from Original
- Multiple MIDI controllers (Program Change, Bank Select, Pitch Bend, Sustain, Volume, Modulation, FX)
- Persistent flash storage
- Hardware abstraction
- Memory-optimized design

### Refactoring Improvements
- **Modular Architecture**: Separated controllers, storage, and configuration modules
- **Factory Pattern**: Dynamic controller instantiation
- **Namespace Organization**: Structured `nexus::` hierarchy
- **Test Framework**: Built-in validation
- **PlatformIO Migration**: Replaced Energia IDE with modern toolchain for better dependency management and debugging

## Technical Stack

- **MCU**: MSP430G2553
- **Platform**: PlatformIO with energia framework
- **Language**: C++98/03 (MSP430 compatibility)
- **IDE**: VSCode with PlatformIO extension

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
1. Install [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
2. Install [PlatformIO IDE extension](https://platformio.org/install/ide?install=vscode)
3. Install MSP430 LaunchPad drivers

**NOTE**: The `mspdebug` tool included with PlatformIO is out of date and doesn't include the `tilib` driver. Ensure you are using at least version `0.25` AND has support for `tilib`. How to do that is outside of the scope of this project.

### Build & Upload
```bash
git clone https://github.com/brotherdust/cycfi-nexus-midi.git
cd cycfi-nexus-midi
code .
```

Build: `Ctrl+Alt+B` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Alt+B` (macOS)  
Upload: Connect LaunchPad, then `Ctrl+Alt+U` or `Cmd+Alt+U`

## Memory Optimization

- C++98/03 only (no C++11 features)
- No virtual functions (minimize vtables)
- No dynamic allocation
- Monitor with `msp430-size`

## Contributing

Guidelines:
- Maintain C++98/03 compatibility
- Follow `nexus::` namespace structure
- Minimize memory usage
- Add tests for new features
- Use conventional commits (`feat:`, `fix:`, `refactor:`, `docs:`, `test:`)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE.md

## Support

- Open issues in the repository
- Check `/docs` directory
- Review test cases for examples

Commit message:

feat: add immediate debounce mode for responsive button handling
Implement alternative debouncing mechanism that provides immediate
button press detection while applying debounce logic only to the
release event. This ensures responsive press actions while preventing
false release triggers from switch bounce.

Changes:
- Add conditional compilation in debouncer class for immediate mode
- Rename macro from CYCFI_USE_IMMEDIATE_DEBOUNCE to
  NEXUS_ENABLE_IMMEDIATE_DEBOUNCE for consistency
- Add feature flag to feature_config.hpp with build flag overrides
- Update documentation to reflect new configuration approach
- Update README.md to note immediate debounce as enabled by default

The feature maintains full backward compatibility - when the flag is
not set, the original debouncing behavior is preserved. No memory
overhead is introduced as the implementation reuses existing state
variables.

To enable: define NEXUS_ENABLE_IMMEDIATE_DEBOUNCE in feature_config.hpp
or via build flags.

README.md, after:

# Nexus GK MIDI Controller Firmware - Modular Refactoring

A modular refactoring of Cycfi Research's Nexus GK MIDI controller for MSP430G2553, enhanced with switch-to-CC mapping functionality.

## Attribution

Based on the original [Cycfi Research Nexus GK](https://www.cycfi.com/) codebase. Original source: [https://github.com/cycfi/nexus/tree/master/source/nexus_midi](https://github.com/cycfi/nexus/tree/master/source/nexus_midi)

## Overview

This refactoring transforms the original monolithic Nexus GK firmware into a modular architecture while adding switch-to-CC mapping capabilities. Built with PlatformIO for MSP430G2553 (16KB Flash, 512B RAM).

### Key Enhancement: Switch-to-CC Mapping (Enabled by Default)
- One-hot encoding: only one CC number active per switch position
- Configurable CC range mapping
- Real-time CC transmission on switch changes

## Features

### Preserved from Original
- Multiple MIDI controllers (Program Change, Bank Select, Pitch Bend, Sustain, Volume, Modulation, FX)
- Persistent flash storage
- Hardware abstraction
- Memory-optimized design

### Refactoring Improvements
- **Modular Architecture**: Separated controllers, storage, and configuration modules
- **Factory Pattern**: Dynamic controller instantiation
- **Namespace Organization**: Structured `nexus::` hierarchy
- **Test Framework**: Built-in validation
- **PlatformIO Migration**: Replaced Energia IDE with modern toolchain for better dependency management and debugging
- **Immediate Debounce Mode** (Enabled by Default): Responsive button handling with immediate press detection and debounced release

## Technical Stack

- **MCU**: MSP430G2553
- **Platform**: PlatformIO with energia framework
- **Language**: C++98/03 (MSP430 compatibility)
- **IDE**: VSCode with PlatformIO extension

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
1. Install [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
2. Install [PlatformIO IDE extension](https://platformio.org/install/ide?install=vscode)
3. Install MSP430 LaunchPad drivers

**NOTE**: The `mspdebug` tool included with PlatformIO is out of date and doesn't include the `tilib` driver. Ensure you are using at least version `0.25` AND has support for `tilib`. How to do that is outside of the scope of this project.

### Build & Upload
```bash
git clone https://github.com/brotherdust/cycfi-nexus-midi.git
cd cycfi-nexus-midi
code .
```

Build: `Ctrl+Alt+B` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+Alt+B` (macOS)  
Upload: Connect LaunchPad, then `Ctrl+Alt+U` or `Cmd+Alt+U`

## Memory Optimization

- C++98/03 only (no C++11 features)
- No virtual functions (minimize vtables)
- No dynamic allocation
- Monitor with `msp430-size`

## Contributing

Guidelines:
- Maintain C++98/03 compatibility
- Follow `nexus::` namespace structure
- Minimize memory usage
- Add tests for new features
- Use conventional commits (`feat:`, `fix:`, `refactor:`, `docs:`, `test:`)

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE.md

## Support

- Open issues in the repository
- Check `/docs` directory
- Review test cases for examples
